### Step Function Workflow

Step Functions are "State Machines", or workflows that cater to a variety of tasks that one wants to orchestrate.

#### Standard Work Flows:

- Long Running, durable and auditable workflow that can run for up to 1 year. And the execution history of the workflow is available for 90 days after the work flow completes.
- At-Most-Once Model, tasks are never executed more than once, unless one specify retry actions.
- Non-Idempotent Actions, for example, you may only want a user who spams a payment, to only process the one payment, not multiple copies of that payment.
- Change in State, requests are non-idempotent if it always causes a change in state (e.g. sending the same email multiple times causes a change in state because you end up with multiple emails in an inbox).

#### Express Work Flows:

- Short-Lived, Great for high-volume event-processing-type workloads.
- At-Least-Once Model, ideal if there is a possibility that an execution might be run more than once, or you rrequire multiple concurrent executions.
- Idempotent Actions, for example, transforming input data and storing the result in DynamoDB.
- Identical Request, requests are idempotent if an identical request can be made once or several times in a row with no additional side effects (reading data from a database or S3 bucket).

> Idempotence - Idempotence is the property of certain operations in mathematics and computer science whereby they can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application.

##### 2 Types of Express Workflows

Synchronous Express Workflow:

- Begin Workflow
- Wait until its completion
- Return result

* Great for operations that are performed one at a time (or in steps). The workflow must complete before it begins the next step.

Asynchronous Express Workflow:

- Begins Workflow
- Confirms start of the workflow
- The result of the workflow can be found in CloudWatch Logs.

* Great if services or operations don't depend on the completion and result of your workflow.
