### Lambda is Stateless.

- You cannnot permanently store any data in the function (such as session data, or customer data).
- Lambda is Ephemeral, that is that it fires off, and goes away. Lambda should not be run for more than 15 minutes, I.e. it should not be used as a database application and or as a web server that needs to stay up and running.
- To persist data via Lambda Functions, it must interact with some sort of data store, S3, EFS, or DynamoDB.

### Storing Data with Lambda

#### /tmp

- Temporary storage, that acts like a cached file system. Data can be accessed multiple times in a function, sharing the execution environment.
- By default, 512 MB - 10 GB, this is the size of the execution environment.
- Data is not persistent and will only exist as long as it takes to execute the Lambda Function.

#### Storing Lambda Libraries

Additional libraries can be included in Lambda deployment package. However, including more libraries here, can increase the amount of time it takes to execute the function.

The Best Practice for this is to use Lambda Layers:

1. Add libraries and SDKs as a layer that can be referenced by multiple functions.
2. Import image manipulation, graphic libraries, or particular AWS SDKs within the layer.

The benefits of the above are that the deployment of the Lambda Function will be faster because the ZIP file containing the code for the function is smaller.

One thing to watch out for is that the version of the libraries included in the Lambda layer cannot be updated dynamically -> a new layer will need to be created.

### Persistent Storage Options Outside of Lambda Functions

#### S3

- Object Storage Only: Allows you to store and retrieve objects. Not a file system.
- Data cannot be written over in S3. If you want to change data in S3, you'll need to upload a completely new object.

#### EFS (Elastic File System)

- Is a file system, data is persistent and can be dynamically updated.
- Mounted by function when the execution environment is created and can be shared across invocations.
- VPS: to use EFS, the Lambda function must be in the same VPC as the EFS.
