### What are Environment Variables

Lambda Envrionment Varables adjust the functions behavior without changing the code.

- Different environment variables can be configured in the Lambda Function to behave differently in development vs production.
- They are a pair of strings:
  key: environment, value: development
  key: databasename, value: mydevdb

They become locked when the Lambda Function is published.

### Use Cases

1. You might reference an S3 Bucket: BUCKET=my-bucket, OBJECT=myfile.txt
2. You might reference an SNS Topic: SNSTOPIC=my-topic
3. You might reference an DynamoDB Table: TABLE=my-dbtable

### Other Lambda Configurable Parameters

- General Configuration:

  - Memory
  - Ephemeral Storage
  - Function Timeout

- Triggers: The service or resource that will invoke the Lambda Function.

- Permissions: The functions execution role determines the permissions that the function will have.

- Function URL: An HTTPS endpoint used to access the function using a browser.

- Tags: User-defined key-value pairs that help organize your functions (for cost reporting).

- VPC: Allow function to access resources that are in a custom VPC.

- Monitoring and Operation Tools: Cloudwatch, Cloudwatch Logs, X-Ray (for performance issues).

- Concurrency: Reserved concurrency ensures that a critical function can always run and restricts other concurrent requests. Provisioned concurrency lets your function scale consistently without any fluctuations in latency.

- File Systems: EFS file system that your function may need to connected to.
