### How to set up Lambda Destination and Dead-Letter Queues

Reminder - What is a Dead-Letter Queue

> Save failed invocations for further processing. These are associated with a particular version of a function, and can even be the event source for another function or the same function, allowing one to re-process events.

1. Create the Lambda Function
2. Go to AWS SNS and create a Topic (A topic being an access point and communication channel, an endpoint for SNS).
3. Create a Subscription targeting the newly created topic (subscriptions make it so anytime there's an update to a Topic, some sort of notification is sent to and recieved to any subscribers).
4. Subscribe to the subscription with an email.
5. Go back to the Lambda Function > Desitnations > Configure the destination (Asynchronous Source, On Failure/Success, Select a Destination)

In our example, we initialize and fire off the function via the console:

`aws lambda invoke --function-name myeLambda --invocation-type Event response.json`

The gist is, based on our destination criteria, whether or not the function fails or succeeds, when a criteria is met, a notification is sent to our email with various data regarding the function.

### Exam Tips

DLQs and destinations can be used for error handling in Lambda.

DLQ - Lamba sends failed events to DLQ for further processing. SNS or SQS are supported. No invocation record is included.
Destination - Handles succesful or failed invocations and works with SNS, SQS, Lambda, and EventBridge.
Invocation Record - A destination provides the invocation record, which includes the response payload.
