### Serverless Summary 1

#### Benefits of Serverless:

1. Enables one to quickly scale applications without managing servers.
2. Serverless apps are event driven, charging the client only when code is executed.
3. Focus can be moved to developing apps rather than configuring servers.

#### Benefits of using Lambda:

1. Pay only when code executes. Keep in mind, and know what services can execute/trigger Lambda.
   - Techs that can trigger Lambda Functions: DynamoDB, Kinesis, SQS, Application Load Balancer, API Gateway, Alexa, CloudFront, S3, SNS, SES, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, CodeCommit, CodePipeline.
2. Lambda scales automatically.
3. Lambda is triggered by an event or action (request from API Gateway, S3 recieving a resources).
4. Lambda Functions are independent, each event will trigger a single function.
5. Serverless Techs like Lambda include: API Gateway, DynamoDB, S3, SNS, SQS.

#### Things to know about API Gateway:

> An API is like a doorway to an app. API Gateway provides an endpoint or doorway to an app on AWS.

##### Benefits:

1.  It's low-cost and scales automatically.
2.  API Gateway can be throttled to prevent apps from being overloaded by too many requests.
3.  Everything is logged in CloudWatch (API Calls, latencies, and errors).

#### Serverless Websites

An example of a serverless website might look like the following:

Static website files (HTML, CSS, JS) are all hosted on S3 and served up to a client when they access the website > A user clicks a button on a website, that sends a request to API Gateway > API Gateway triggers the respective Lambda Function > Lambda Function executes its code and sends a response to API Gateway > API Gateway forwards the response to the client changing the webpage that the user is seeing on their client.

#### Version Control w/ Lambda:

> $LATEST - is a stand-in or alias that always represents the latest version of code that has been uploaded to Lambda.

- Use Lambda Versioning and aliases to point apps to specific versions of code if we don't want to use or default to $LATEST.
  - For example:
    aws:lambda:us-east-1:123425345A:function:mylambda:Prod
    aws:lambda:us-east-1:123425345A:function:mylambda:Test aws:lambda:us-east-1:123425345A:function:mylambda:$LATEST

\*Remember, if you use an alias not $LATEST, the latest code uploaded will not be used in the app, and you'll need to go in and manually update the code.

#### Lambda Concurrent Executions Limits

1. Lambda has a limit to how many concurrent connections there can be - 1,000/sec.
2. If running a serverless website, you are bound to hit the limit at some point. And when this happens, invocations of your Lambda function will start to be rejected with the 429 HTTP error code, `TOO MANY REQUESTS`.
3. When this happens, you can only raise the limit by reaching out to AWS Support.
4. Reserved Concurrency guaruntees a set number of concurrent executions are always available for mission critical functions.
