### Serverless Summary 2

#### Lambda accessing resources in a Private VPC:

1. Provide VPC Config information to the function - Private Subnet ID & Security Group ID
2. Lambda uses the VPC Information - Lambda configures an EIN (Elastic Network Interface) using an IP from the Private Subnet CIDR Range.
3. Security Group - The Security Group then allows function to access resources in VPC.

#### Step Function Exam Tips:

1. Visualize & Orchestrate - Step Functions are useful to visualize and orchestrate serverless applications.
2. Auotmate - Step Functions automatically trigger and track each step of the State Machine or workflow. The output of one step is often the input to the next (Sequential Workflow).
3. Step Functions log the state of each step, so if something goes wrong, you can track what went wrong and where it went wrong.

#### Comparing Step Function Worfklows:

1. Standard Workflows - Long Running (Up to a year). At-Most-Once. Non-Idempotent.
2. Express workflows - Short-Lived (Up to 5 minutes). At-Least-Once. Idempotent.
3. Synchronous Express Workflows - This workflow must complete before the next step can begin (e.g. a customer must provide their email address before an order can be completed.)
4. Asynch Express Workflows - Other tasks are not dependent on the completion of this workflow - like asynch functions (e.g. a messaging system).

> Idempotence - Idempotence is the property of certain operations in mathematics and computer science whereby they can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application.

#### X-Ray Exam Tips:

- Analyze & Debug: X-Ray helps developers analyze and debug distributed applications.
- Service Map: The Service Map is a visual representation of an application.
- X-Ray Agent & X-Ray SDK: The X-Ray agent/daemon must be installed on your EC2 instance. Use the X-Ray SDK to instrunment applications and send traces to X-Ray.

1. X-Ray integrates with a number of AWS Services: DynamoDB, Lambda, API Gateway.
2. Applications can be instrunmented to send data to X-Ray, for example, incoming HTTP requests to you application.
3. Applications can be run on EC2, Elastic Beanstalk environments, on-premise systems, & ECS.
4. FOR ECS, run X-Ray in its own Docker Image alongside the application.
5. Add user-defined key-value pairs to X-Ray data allowing you to filter, index, & search (e.g. game_name=TicTacToe, game_id=2645)

#### API Gateway Caching Exam Tips:

1. Improves Performance - by caching the output of API calls to avoid calling to backend every request.
2. TTL - responses are cached for a TTL period. The default TTL is 300s(5 min).
3. Reduce the number of API Calls - returns the cached response instead of making a new request to your application.

#### API Gateway Throttling Exam Tips:

Defualt limits provided by API Gateway is 10,000rps (requests per second) and 5,000 concurrent requests.

When exceeding that limit API Gateway will return the HTTP error 429 - `TOO MANY REQUESTS`. API Gateway uses throttling to prevent an API from being overwhelmed with requests.

#### Advanced API Gateway Throttling Exam Tips:

External API Definitions (such as OpenAPI) can be imported.

When dealing with legacy applications that use SOAP, you can configure API Gateway as a SOAP web service passthrough, or you can use API Gateway to convert the XML response to JSON.
