### Serverless Summary 3

#### Serverless Architecture Exam Tips:

1. Event Driven & Asynchronous: an event or message might trigger an action, but no response is given or required.
2. Building Blocks: Think of AWS Services as building blocks that can be put together to create an application.
3. Loosely Coupled: SQS allows one to queue messages and EventBridge helps one to handle events and route them to the right application components (or services).
4. Flexibility & Scalability: Services and components operate and scale independently of each other.

##### The Example Banking Application:

A customer goes onto the Application and makes a withdrawl > That request is sent to API Gateway and triggers a Lambda Function to process the withdrawl > The Lambda Function updates a DynamoDB table > The update triggers an event via EventBridge: - If the customer overdraws from their account EventBridge triggers an overDraft Lambda Function that begins the workflow to send the customer the option to increase their overdraft limit. - Also, EventBridge triggers SNS to send the customer a notification advising them of the overdraft from their account.

##### The Example Image Processing Application:

A user uploads image to an S3 bucket > That addition to the S3 Bucket, triggers a Lambda function that processes the image resizing it to a thumbnail view > the new processed image is sent to another bucket or folder in the bucket - at the same time, the images metadata gets stored in a DynamoDB table > finally, CloudFront serves up all of the new processed images when a client accesses it.

##### The Example Social Media Application:

The app takes in Social Media Events via Kinesis > Kinesis Firehose takes the realtime data and sends it to a Lambda Function > the results of the function get stored in a DynamoDB.

#### Ephemeral and Persistent Data Storage:

Native with Lambda:

- /tmp (ephemeral storage): Used for Temp Data. Size Limit of 512mb to 10gb. Dynamic read/write capabilities. Shared within execution environment.
- Lambda Layer: Used for SDKs and Libraries. Size Limit of 50mb zipped or 250mb unzipped. Updates require a new layer. Shared across execution environments.

External Storage Options:

- S3: Used for peristent data. Elastic size limit. Store and retrieve data. Shared across execution environments.
- EFS: Used for peristent data. Elastic size limit. Dynamic read/write. Shared across execution environments.

#### Lambda Environment Variables & Parameters:

- Lambda Environment Variables: Adjust function behavior without changing your code (e.g. key: environment, value: development, key: databasename, value: mydevdb).
- Configurable Parameters: Adjust various settings that apply to your function. Located in the `Configuration` tab.
- Configure Capacity: Memory, ephemeral storage, concurrency.
- Connectivity: Connect to other AWS Services like CloudWatch and X-Ray for monitoring, VPCs, and EFS file system.

#### Lambda Deployment Package Options:

The benefit of the Lambda Layer is that it can be shared amongst many Lambda Functions. So functions that require similar libraries or SDKs can all share the same layer.

- Deployment Package: Your function code and any optional dependencies.
- Large Deployment Packages: These are deployment packages over 50mb in size and must be zipped and uploaded to S3.
- Lambda Layer: Reduces the overall size of the deployment package, enabling functions to initialize faster. Multiple functions can reference the same layer.
  (xray-sdk.zip > nodejs/node_modules/aws-xray-sdk)

#### Lambda Function Best Practices:

- Memory and CPU: Increasing the memory will increase CPU capacity and can reduce the duration.
- Dependencies: Importing libraries and SDKs takes time and can slow down the intilization of your function.
- Only What You Need: Only import what you need in order to avoid wasting time importang an entire SDK.

> `Import AWS from 'aws-sdk'` > `Import DynamoDB from 'aws-sdk/clients/dynamodb'`

#### Handling Lambda Events Lifecycle and Errors:

- Retries: If a function returns an error, Lambda Automatically performs two retries.
- Dead-Letter Queues: Save failed invocations for further processing. SQS or SNS are supported. Use SNS to fan out to multiple destinations.
- Lambda Destinations: Configure one destination for sending successful invocation records, and other for unsuccessful invocations (e.g. SQS, SNS, Lambda, & EventBridge).

#### Using API Gateway Stages for Testing Deployed Code

API Gateway stage references the lifecycle state of the API (e.g., dev, prod, v3, etc.) Stage variables can be used to reference a specific backend endpoint (e.g., a Lambda function).

Different stages can send incoming requests to different functions for development and testing.

##### API Mock Endpoints

Allow one to simulate responses and behaviors that you would expect from an API that allow you to CREATE, TEST, and DEBUG, without requiring a real API to hit.

### Parameter Mapping

HTTP APIs - Parameter mapping is used to modify API Requests and Responses.
Specify - API requests or responses that you want to modify.
How - Specify how you'd want to change the parameters.

API Request > API Gateway > API Request
H1 > API Gateway > H2 - Header
Q1 > API Gateway > Q2 - Query String
P1 > API Gateway > P2 - Request Path
