### Event Driven Architectures

1. Asynchronous - events are asynchronous communication used to loosely couple application components. An event or message might trigger an action, but no response is expected or required.

- Loosely Coupled services and components scale independently of each other.

2. Functions are single purpose, these stateless functions perform a short-lived task.

AWS Services are used as building blocks and require minimal maintenance.

### Characteristics of Event-Driven-Architecture.

Usually there is an event source such as DynamoDB and or S3 > an Event Router such as Event Bridge > and Event Destinations such as SNS and Lambda.

#### Example: Banking Application

Customer makes a withdrawl from their account - their request hits the API Gateway, triggers a Lambda Function to process the withdrawl > this updates a DynamoDB table > The Table update event triggers EventBridge because the customer has gone overdrawn > a Lambda Function with an Overdraft Increase Notification which sends a message to SQS to send a message to the customer to offer increased overdraft. Additionally, a lambda function triggers an SNS notification sending a message to the customers phone notifiying them of the overdraft.

#### Example Image Processing

S3 Bucket gets sent an image, a lambda function processes the image - resizing it as a thumbnail, the function sends the processed image to another S3 button, and logs the image data in a DynamoDB table > finally the processed images are served via CloudFront.
