### S3 Storage Classes

#### Standard

High availability and durability

Data is stored across multiple AZ, and has a 99.99 availability and 11 9's durability.

For frequently accessed data, and default storage class.

Use Cases: Websites, Content Distribution, Mobile and Gaming Apps, and Big Data Analytics

#### Standard Infrequent Access (S3-IA)

For data you might access 3 times a month.

For data accessed infrequently, but still need rapid access to.

- Pay for access to this data. Per-GB retrieval fee.

Use Cases: Long-Term Storage, backups and disaster recovery files.

- Minimum storage duration: 30 sdays.

Data is stored across multiple AZ, and has a 99.99 availability and 11 9's durability.

#### S3 One Zone Infrequent Access

Same as S3-IA, just data is in a single AZ, and costs 20% less than regular S3-IA.

Great for long-lived, infrequently accessed data.

#### Glacier

Glacier is super cheap storage for data that is very infrequently accessed data.

Should be used only for archiving data.

Retrieval Time is from 1 minute to 12 hour, a few times a year.

90 day minimum of storage duration

#### Glacier Deep Archive

Defualt Retrieval time is 12 Hours +.

Might be used on financial records that may be accessed once or twice per year.

180 day minimum storage duration

### S3 - Intelligent Tiering

S3 will automatically move data to most cost-effective tier based on how frequently data is accessed for each object.

### Exam Tips

S3 Standard = most workloads

S3 Standard Infrequent Access = infrequently accessed business critical data

One Zone Infrequent Access = infrequently accessed, non-critical data

S3 Glacier = Long Term data archiving, hours to minutes access time

S3 Glacier Deep Archive = rarely accessed data archive, 12 hours or more access time.
