### How does CloudFront work?

Many Networks around the world are linked together to serve content at a particular region. How many hops content takes to reach a geographic region determines how well a piece of content might get served to an end user.

Edge Location - Collection of servers, a data center that caches content, and allows other networks to access. When content is cached once at an edge location, that content can be served from a cached version, reducing the number of hops content takes to reach an AWS Region.

CloudFront Origin - the location of the files that you wish to distribute to other edge locations.

CloudFront Distribution - name given to origin and configuration settings of the content that needs to be distributed via the CDN.

### Why Cloudfront?

Deliver an entire website, via the nearest edge location so content is delivered with the best performance.

Works with, Non-AWS-Origin Server, S3, EC2, Route 53.

---

Objects are cached for a TTL, which is by default, 1 day. You can clear this cache, but you are charged for doing so.

### S3 Transfer Acceleration

Works like CloudFront, but in reverse. Users can upload files or transfer files to edge locations, once at the edge locations, those files will then be delivered to the origin region over optimized network paths.

### Exam Tips

Edge Locations are not just read only, they can also be written to as well -> S3 Transfer Acceleration

Objects are cached on endge locations for a TTL (by default 1 day).
